HTTP helps us transfer multimedia through the web.
DNS – A mapper, it is the phonebook of the internet, it maps a domain name to a specific IP address, it maps names between numbers.
ISP
The World Wide Web
Your localhost is a callback address

OSI-Model an open system interconnection. 
Data link layer.
Everything in SWE is about sending data from one place to another.
Distributed systems.
SSL, TLS
TCP/UDP are transfer protocols.

Client server architecture – The server can do all things, all you just need to do is to ask, send a request (the client sends the request). After the request is sent, a response is gotten.
The types of requests you can make are POST, GET, PUT (update), DELETE.
What is URL, URI, e.t.c
We need to understand “.com”

The aim of networking is to share data.
The internet is the connection of many networks across the globe.
TCP is the transport layer

Data: Data is anything and everything, 1s and 0s. Data can be text, numbers, multimedia, images, audio. Data is sent in packets. All forms of data is transmitted in 1s and 0s
The ISP gives you access to the world.
Not only the Web uses the internet. Internet uses protocol, one of those protocol is HTTP for multimedia, FTP, SMTP.
Every device has a MAC Address. IP Address is what the router uses to recognize you.

HTTP Status code shows the status of your request.
Latency is the time for a client to send a request and get a response. Often times, we want low latency.
This is as a result of network bandwidth. You want low latency and high bandwidth.

Things to read:
What is the internet
What is HTTP
What is Domain Name System?
What is URL

The IP address and the port is what you are mapping to the domain name.



Abstract classes.

Array data type is a reference data type, its saves the location of wherever we are accessing.


OBJECT ORIENTED PROGRAMMING
Functional and Object oriented.
A programming paradigm that organizes software design around objects which can represent real world entities and their interactions.

Objects – key value pair, a representation of a real-life entity. Key value is same as property value.
Method – an action that object can perform.
Encapsulation, Inheritance, Abstraction, Polymorphism.
A class is a blueprint/template for creating objects.
Object is an instance of a class.
Note: it isn’t every time you would need a constructor, but use one most times.
Package.json holds information and configuration about your project.
Npm init
To install typescript globally: npm i -g typescript
To confirm it is successfully installed: typescript –v
To install typescript into your project as a dev dependency: npm install -D typescript
Npx tsc –init – This will create a tsconfig.json file
Create your index.ts file.
To compile your typescript code, you do: tsc index.ts
To keep your compiler on watch mode: Run the command tsc –watch

Read on types of functions
Polymorphism - You can call the same method on different types of objects and have them to behave differently.
Access Modifiers: labels given to properties and methods to specify what can access it…There are four main ones
Public, private, protected
Private: can only be accessed within that class where it is defined.
Protected: can be accessed within the class and the subclass.
Read-only: The property can only be read, but not modified.

Static methods are those that belong to the class itself and not the instances. It is used when managing shared state.


